I've always been a leader from my contemporaries,
except two years at A&M. I can't remember any
leadership I did there. Okay, now of course you
were in the military for three decades, and I was
wondering, you must have met a lot of officers who
were A&M graduates, and a lot of officers who were
West Point graduates, and some were ROTC men. And I
was wondering if you could tell me the difference
between those types. Well, I found quite a bit of
difference when I was a flying instructor and in
charge of primary flying stage at Brooks Field.
I found that the young man who came from ROTC, A&M,
Georgia Tech, and various other places, took to
flying better than the graduates of West Point.
And I figured it out, it was because Their mind
hadn't been grooved along a certain line like they
do at West Point at that time back in the 20's. I
think the West Point cadets were more or less put in
a rut if you can put a youngster in a rut like that
early in their thinking. It made it a little more
difficult for them to learn to fly than the A&M
cadets and ROTC from the other universities. I
never noticed any difference between A&M cadets
and Georgia Tech, for instance, or the various
other ROTC units. Do you think that any of them
officers, when they became officers, do you think
that they were well trained? Yes, I think they
were,
I think they were as good as West Point officers.
Better in some respects, possibly not quite as
good as others, but I couldn't point out the
differences and then of course each one is an
individual and you can't classify a
bunch of people because everyone's different.
But I was very proud of the A&M officers that I had
under me and I knew
I was always proud of A&M. Had a reputation
throughout the Army of turning out fine officers.
I had some of them as cadets.
George Epright
lived over there by Austin, was one of my students.
He came from A&M. He's since given A&M a very large
donation of land out of the land. He was probably
the best student I ever had. He was from A&M.
Best flying student. When you were at A&M, would
you consider yourself an average student? As far
as students go, I was probably average.
talk to people about A&M, a number of them say that
it's more than just a college, more than just an
institution, but there's something special.
Would you agree with that, or what are your
thoughts on that? I think there's something
special about Texas A&M that just breeds better
class of citizens, better army officers, better
big civil life. There's something about the
atmosphere there that, among the core, of course,
it stressed discipline and integrity and
honesty.
The other students now, I don't know much about.
The Corps is probably only about 10% of the, is it?
About 10% of them.
So I suppose that the other 90% are about the same as
the Texas University. I mean, they're the schools
in Texas.
I think Texans are superior to them. residents of
any other state. Why do you say that? I think
straighter,
more patriotism.
Something about the Alamo law and something about
Texas that makes you proud of it. If you take pride
in your state, then you can take pride in your
country.
Were you sad when you left Texas A&M in 1917? What's
that? Were you sad when you left A&M? Did you want to
come back? Why did you leave? Well, I left to help
Dad on the ranch. He couldn't hire anybody. He was
out there by himself.
And when I left, I had no idea what I was going to do,
whether I was going to come back or not. And the war
had just started. The war had just started, yeah.
And about August, I tried to enlist in the Marines,
and they were pulled up, and that's why I put in this
newfangledness of flying. It
would be a challenge to me. So about four or five
months later before I was able to get in. Because
they were killed too? Were they killed? Yeah, they
didn't have any place.
They enlisted me, but I was on standby status until
December. I had a cousin who was a general in the
army and I wrote him to see if he could. He was a what?
A general? Yeah, General Fletcher Sharp. How'd
you meet him? Well, he was my cousin.
I wrote him.
capture a door in the Philippines with
Wainwright. He and Wainwright were in the same
prison camp. He
uh, he wrote back. I
think maybe he helped me get in, and I finally got in
in December. Went to Austin to ground school.
I've got a letter here from...
I'll turn that light on. There's two outlets
there. I don't know why she took them both.
I got it. Okay. I got a letter here from the United
States Air Force, research on military
leadership and it's written by Captain Puryear
and this is back in 1961.
He asked certain questions here and I wrote the
answers down.
Unfortunately, it didn't keep the question, but I
think if you look at the answers I have here on
leadership, it might give you some insight into
my thinking on it. Let's talk about your career.
Yeah. And anything that, of course, you've
written in your memoirs, which you're going to
give us a copy of, anything that you've written,
You can just say that's in my memoirs and we can move
on. But otherwise, I would like to get an idea of
your career. Well, it's all written down in my
memoirs.
1919, I was stationed at Carl Field, Wichita
Falls, Texas, and an old schoolmate of mine, Bill
Irwin, came through with a flying circus, and he
wanted to know why I was still in the Army, why I
couldn't get out and make a fortune flying in one of
these, with his circus, taking up passengers, and
they'd pay him so much for or
pairing at various functions. So I decided I'd get
out of the Army and be a barnstormer. So I put in and I
couldn't get out until October. That's as soon as
they let me loose of 1919 and by that time Bill Irwin
had lost his life on the Dole flight.
trying to fly to Hawaii. It was a $25,000 prize for
the first one who flew from the mainland
over to Hawaii. And he was at the Blanca, I believe,
in an airplane. He started out with a mechanic and
never was heard from again. There I was out of the
Army and no job, but that didn't bother me any. I
went down to Dallas,
stayed with some friends there, and a fella hired
me to buy an airplane for him. He wanted to go out and
take up passengers, a $10 ride, wanted me to fly a
plane.
that's all covered in the memoirs. Well, I was
wondering about World War I and about your
training. Oh,
well after eight weeks at ground school in Austin,
Texas, there was no Vegans in the flying school for
us, so they sent us all to Camp Deck at Dallas,
Texas, which was
in the fairgrounds at Dallas. We were quartered in
the in the building that normally housed the
animals,
waiting vacancies in flying school.
And I've got that all covered in my memoirs. In my
flying school, I went to Kelly,
and I went over to Brookston to take an
instructor's course. I went out to Georgia to be an
instructor, a flying instructor. How good was the
quality of instruction when they taught you how to
fly? It was exceptionally good at Kelly. At that
time, I started April 6, 1918,
and we had the old Jennys, JN-4Ds, Curtis JN-4Ds,
and I had a man named Chandler who was my instructor
for a duo.
I think he was a very fine instructor, and I think
the quality of instruction was very good.
Were there any fatalities, any problems? Well, a
lot of cadets were killed, some instructors. I had
Eddie Stinson, who was a well-known aviator at
that time. He was an instructor at Kelly. Joe
Levery died recently. I lived in San Antonio. He
was an acrobatic instructor. I had the cream of the
crop as far as instructors go. What was the
feeling? Was the feeling that you were in a brand
new field now? Was it exciting? Do you
remember? Well, I just remember I liked it. I loved
it.
It was exciting. I'm not philosophical about it in
any way
that I can remember. What did the other parts of the
Army think about the Army Air Corps? Well, they
were jealous of us.
We wore white ribbons around our hats. You had
these old campaign hats, you know, stick out and
come to a point up here. And around the sweatband,
We wore white ribbon to denote that we were cadets.
We weren't enlisted men, we were cadets getting
$75 a month. Enlisted men were getting $13, I
think, maybe $20. We'd
all go into town in San Antonio and meet the girls.
So and so would say, well, tell the girls at that
white hat band that we had venereal disease.
And jealousy.
But I think that's pretty well covered.
And what campaigns, just briefly, what campaigns
are, did you go, did they send you to France, or did
you remain an instructor? No, they kept me in this
country as an instructor, and I think if the war had
lasted another year, I would have probably been
stuck right in the United States as a flying
instructor because I was very good at it, and that
was the first day I went out to Southern Field. I was
put in charge of a small group, I don't know why they
picked me, but they did, to teach them what they
would get when they got to Brooks Field and they
were going to take the instructor's course.
So that was the first day I was out there. I flew
eight hours instructing these
young lieutenants on what they were going to get
when they got to Brooks Field.
I started my leadership right there.
But for the next, I didn't get in a position of
leadership
until
I guess in 1926, when I was picked to be the head man
at the primary flying stage at Brooks Field. I had
21 instructors and 120 students under my command.
That was my first big... Okay, but before we get
there, why'd you decide to quit barnstorming? and
when did you, and why did you decide to go back?
Okay, so you got out of the service in 1919, and then
you barnstormed, and how long did you do that, and
why did you decide to go back in? Well, I gave up on
this joker that hired me in Dallas. I gave up on him
because I didn't like him, and we weren't making
any money, and so I quit him after about a month. and
I went back up to Dalhart to be with my folks for
Christmas. And then I got a call from Amarillo, a
fella I'd known at the Caulfield, and said, we want
you down here in our new flying company. We're
going to barnstorm all over the Panhandle. We got
two airplanes. So I went down there and I was in the
barnstorming business until about April and May.
In the meantime, the War Department had written me
a letter and went to Dalhart and my mother opened
it. April and May of what year? 1920. And that's
covered in my memoir. Sure. My mother called me up
from Dalhart and said, son, there's a letter here
from the War Department. They want you back in the
Army. They would make you a first lieutenant. If
you must fly, son, why don't you get back in the Army
where you can fly some decent equipment instead of
those old crates that you're flying down there on
an armarella?" I said, okay mother. So I accepted
it. I got back in the Army in September 1920. I
ordered the Brooksfield and I went right
restructuring again.
In 22 we moved up to Kelly and had an instructor
there.
Then on the 1923 bombing of the battleships in New
Jersey and West Virginia. Yeah, tell me about
that. Well, I've got all that covered in detail in
my memoirs.
Billy Mitchell. Sure. Did you have an opportunity
to meet Billy Mitchell? Yeah, he was a good friend
of mine. Could you characterize him? What was he
like? Well, he was a very dynamic man.
On the order of MacArthur and Patton.
lots of physical and nervous energy and
all. He was always in trouble with the General
Staff in Washington.
He was bound and determined that they were going to
recognize the Air Corps as being a very valuable
part of the Army and
that the Air Corps could sink battleships do this
and that. They didn't like him in Washington at
all. Of course, they tried him later.
This is being subordinated. Anyway. What'd you
think of him? I liked him. Why? Well, I liked him. He
was my type of man. He was very much in love with
flying and the Air Corps. We called ourselves at
that time. He would stand up and tell these
superior officers of his in Washington what he
thought. That's the way I always operated.
I just liked him at the time. He liked me. During his
battleship bombing,
one day he said, Beverly, take up a supercharged
Martin bomber and see what the absolute ceiling
is, how high it can get loaded, fully loaded. So I
had it loaded up and went up for an altitude test.
Well, he picked me for that. Then during the
bombing when there was one battleship still
afloat he said, Beverly take your crew and go up and
sink that battleship. He picked me out of all the
crews there. So he seemed to like me. And did you
sink it? Yeah. My bomber put one 1100 pound bomb
right down the smokestack from 11,000 feet.
He was a good bomber. We had the old fashioned Navy
bomb sites.
Now of course the Northern bomb sites come in since
then. I don't know what they're using now. I'm so
out of date with the Air Force that I don't know what
kind of bomb sites they have now but that old Navy
bomb site was very crude compared to what we use
now.
How did you feel when you sang it? Oh, I was elated of
course. Then we had this big critique, everybody
in there you know. Mitchell was going over what was
happening and this and that and then I sent my best
crew up to finish off the last ship. Of course that
made Captain Ross Cole and myself feel pretty
good. He was my bomber. Were you a captain at that
time? Had you been promoted to captain then? No,
no. We were all on a single promotion list until the
mid-thirties. The only way you moved up a file was
somebody would either retire or die, but it was
ahead of you. So it was 1934 before I moved up to
captain. The promotions during the 1920s and the
1930s were extraordinarily slow. Was that
demoralizing? No. Everybody else was a
lieutenant. All my friends and contemporaries
were lieutenants, except at every base they had
one or two majors, you know, maybe a lieutenant
colonel. The rest were all lieutenants, so it
didn't bother us. We were getting enough money to
live on and we lived in old shacks there at Kelly
Field that had been built during 1917 and
converted into living quarters for families. But
everybody else was living the same way so
we never worried about money or the kind of
quarters we were having. getting things that seem
to worry him so much today. I don't understand it
because
it didn't bother us any. Well why do you think it
bothers him today? I mean what's the difference? I
can't understand it. What's the difference
between an officer today and an officer back in the
1920s? I think we were back in those days where we
were in a new game. We were felt ourselves to be
superior to ordinary humans and Americans and
today
it seems like they think more they're less
patriotic and think more about money and
promotion
and prestige
rank
Why is their crime rate so much worse today than it
was back in those days? I don't know. But you don't
know why this has changed now, in the officer
court? Yeah, I've got lots of good friends out here
at the base at Laughlin, and the colonels out there
are getting a lot more money than I'm drawing,
retired,
but there seem to be a lot of them seem to be
wanting more money.
Some of them get out and go to flying for the
airlines, $40,000 and $50,000. $40,000
is starter pay and the chance to go up to $75,000.
Well, I guess you can't blame them much when that
opportunity wasn't there when I was coming up.
There were no airlines that they were asking me to
get out and fly for them.
Did you ever think during the 1920's or the 30's
that you should get out to fly for the mail or
something like the U.S. Mail or something like
that? No, no. I was very happy where I was.
but then fly that dirty whip. We did fly it. We tried
to fly the mail when Franklin Roosevelt canceled
all air mail contracts and told Benny Filloy, who
was chief of the Air Force, to fly the air mail.
We weren't equipped for it. We'd been on
starvation rations since When the Depression
started in 1929, we had no very poor equipment for
flying air and mail. We had no radio aids for night
flying, bad weather flying, and we made a mess of
it. We lost twelve, I think it was, little fine
pilots. plus the airplanes
that they ran. In 1927, Lindbergh crossed the
Atlantic. Did you ever, what did you think about
that? Well, I thought that,
I wondered if I could stay awake thirty-six hours
and do that. I didn't think I could. I thought I must
have tremendous physical energy to keep awake
that
long. I just didn't think
I could have done it in time. I'm happy to see him do
it. Did you know anybody that also wanted to try to
do it? Did you know any of your colleagues or
yourself ever think about trying to find the
Atlantic? No.
I can't swim.
Did you ever have an opportunity to meet Lundberg?
Yeah. When was that? He and his wife. That was in
1929. I was up in Kansas City at Chargent. flying
for our global flying school. I was on leave from
the Air Force.
He was taking the airplane out and he stopped and
shook hands with me and his wife Ann.
That's the only time I met him. Did you have an
opportunity to talk to
him? No. Now tell me about this 1926 you said that
you ordered. Was that your, given your, was it your
first command then?
Uh, I see.
In charge of 120 pilots was it? 120 pilots and 21
instructors,
yeah. Yeah, that was my first
command.
I loved it. I would assign the students to various
instructors and if the instructor decided the
student wasn't qualified to be a pilot, I'd give
him a check ride to verify it. Also, I gave a check
ride to all the students when they graduated and
moved over to Kelly for the training. So I spent
quite a lot of time checking students for washout
and for promotion. Were there a number, a large
number of students that didn't make it? Yes, a
large number. I would say half of them didn't make
it. One just lacked the natural ability to
coordination of mind and muscle, and judgment of
speed and distance, the temperament, various
things that go to make a first class, at the time,
army pilot.
And I'd be surprised how many of them don't have
that. Nowadays, it seems to me like they don't wash
out quite as many. At that time, we were flying,
what you might say, by the seat of our britches. We
had no instruments to speak of, no radio aids,
and it was strictly contact flying,
and you had to be very alert and have all of these
qualities some of which are not required today
because it seemed like they fly by push button a
goody of the day. So, I would say
I don't think the washout rate out here at
Laughlin, which is the primary flying school,
is anywhere near like it was with us.
I expect it's more like 25%, maybe less
than that. And another thing out here now, they
have a simulator
that you get in and it's built so that you're
sitting there operating in this simulator and
you're actually You look like you're flying a
plane. You may know something about those. They
use it also in
the handling of ships, sea, things like that,
simulators. And they get a lot of simulator
training before they ever get in an airplane. And I
think it helps them a great deal. It certainly
saves the government millions of dollars in
money.
Why do you say that you liked that command very
much? Why did I say what? That you liked your
command so much, your first one in 1926. Oh,
I just liked it. I liked to be the top man. I like to
direct people. I think I've got the ability. I know
I have the judgment.
I'm a natural born teacher. I like to teach. When I
retired from the Air Force, I tried to get a job as a
teacher, and they said I was too old. But I like to
teach youngsters. great deal of satisfaction in
turning out a good flyer, for instance. I'm very
proud of the ones that I turned out. And how long did
you stay? And where was this? This is Brooksfield,
San Antonio. Okay, and how long did you? I was there
two years, and I moved over to Kelly. I wanted to I
was playing polo with the Kelly Field Polo Team and
I wanted to get over there closer to where the
horses were.
In 1928 I requested transfer to Kelly from Brooks
and it was approved. I went over to Kelly and his
instructor for one class in the attack section.
And I was put in charge of the section in the next
class.
And I was close to the polo stables. And I'd have to
know that, work out horses, practice polo, magic
play golf. We worked from seven till about one,
three for the day. So why such a short day? Well, he
worked from 7 to 1 flying and that's not a short day.
Oh, no. Okay. That's not a short day by any means
with students. Actually, three hours when I was in
charge over at Brooks. I figured an instructor
could do a good job for three hours and that's about
all. He had six students, each one got 30 minutes of
dual instruction each day. Later on one or two of
them washed out while you could give more time to
the others. But three hours, about a day's work as a
flying instructor. You'd be surprised what it
takes out of you.
Were you a good bullet player? I had a national
rating of two goals. Really?
And where'd you pick up the polo? Kelly, Kelly
Field. We had a major garrison at Kelly in 1921. In
1922, a very fine fella, he decided that Air Force
ought to have a polo team. He went over to Fort Sam
Houston and borrowed horses, built stables at
Kelly, bought hay and so forth for her. And he
started a polo squad there. And I went down there in
1922 from Post Field, Oklahoma. I started playing
polo. I'd already, I knew how to ride a horse. I'd
been on a ranch quite a bit. And I loved the polo.
That's the greatest outdoor game with any of them.
Was the Army Air Force abducted by the Depression?
Well, we were cut out on a number of airplanes they
bought for us. We were cut out on the amount of
flying we could do because we couldn't pay for the
gasoline. They gave us all a one month furlough, a
payless furlough. cut out on the amount of money it
took for salaries, and we, by the way, got that back
later on. Congress reinstated it, but we spent a
month there without pay, everybody in the Army.
In 1929 or 1930? That was 1930 and 31, 1930 I
believe. My wife and I just went to Mexico City and
spent the month in Mexico City. Why'd you decide to
go down? We'd been studying Spanish in San Antonio
with Senorita Oviedo Gonzalez there. I just
wanted to learn Spanish. So did you down in Mexico
City? She said, I've got some friends in Mexico
City and I'll fix it up so you live right with them.
That way you can learn. the language quicker, so
she fixed it up with friends of hers in Mexico City
to meet us at the train, take us to their home, and we
lived there with them about a week and decided it
was too confining and moved to a hotel. But we
enjoyed the month down there very much. Didn't
learn much Spanish,
but we had a good time.
Did the status of the Army Air Force change when
Franklin Roosevelt was elected? Did you get more
money and equipment? Let me see. We started
getting more equipment
in 1933. I
was at the Air Corps Tactical School. And
we were getting a little more money for airplanes,
but not very much. We tried to fly the airmail in
1934 and made a botch of it because of lack of
equipment.
instruments and so forth. And that helped us get
increased appropriations in 1934 and 35. We
started getting some modern equipment. About the
time we got the Martin B-10 bomber, it was the first
airplane we got where the landing gear folded up.
Retractable gear. Was it a single wing? It was a
single wing, low wing, and two engines. A friend of
mine, like Duffy, led a flight from Miami to
Panama. I was down in Panama in 1935 when he came in
there. I got a picture
Duffy and General Brett and the other basic
commander and so forth. I've got a lot of clippings
and pictures in there that you can... How long are
you going to be here? I don't know how long it will
take. I was going to say, you can take them back
tonight and bring them back in the morning. You
might look them over. And also this... I got a copy
of my manuscript. Let me look
that over. What was your command after you left?
What was your command in the 1930s? Well, after I
finished school at Montgomery, Alabama, that was
a nine months course in air corps tactics, I was
sent to the Boston
airport to be commanding, be instructor for the
Massachusetts National Guard squadron there.
And I despised that work. Why? It had nothing to do.
They have a good going outfit up there. They didn't
need me as an instructor. I didn't know any more
about the observation than they did. They were an
observation squadron. But every squadron had to
have a regular Army instructor. So I was hooked for
that job and I kept trying to get out of it.
temporary duty down at Langley Field, Virginia as
a student in celestial navigation. Well, that
took up about six weeks. And then they decided I
ought to stay there as an instructor in the next
course. Well, that suited me fine. Anything
rather than go back to that National Guard
squadron. So I stayed down at Langley as
instructor in the navigation for the next course.
and that went through Christmas and then about
January I think Roosevelt canceled air and mail
contracts with civilian airlines and told the Air
Corps to fly the air and mail
and I was up at Floyd Bennett Airport there right
outside New York City to bring an airplane up
there. Major Jones, who was in charge of airmail
for that area, said, get on the train, go to
Pittsburgh as a control officer. Stop the killing
out there. I think they'd lost something like five
or six airplanes just on that one route.